README.md, before:

# 📊 Financial Trading ETL Pipeline

> A production-ready, cloud-native ETL pipeline for automated cryptocurrency data collection, processing, and storage with AWS S3 integration and Snowflake data warehouse support.

[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![AWS S3](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-S3-orange.svg)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
[![Snowflake](https://img.shields.io/badge/Snowflake-Ready-blue.svg)](https://www.snowflake.com/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

---

## ✨ Features

### 🔄 **Data Collection**
- **Minute-Level Precision**: Collects cryptocurrency market data at 1-minute intervals
- **Multi-Source Resilience**: Automatic fallback between Binance → CryptoCompare → Kraken
- **8 Major Cryptocurrencies**: BTC, ETH, SOL, ADA, DOT, LINK, UNI, AVAX
- **9,600+ Records/Day**: 1,200 minutes × 8 symbols = comprehensive intraday coverage
- **Historical Data**: Collect data for any past date with strict `YYYY-MM-DD` validation

### ☁️ **Cloud Storage (AWS S3)**
- **Dual Format Storage**: JSON (compressed) + Parquet (analytics-optimized)
- **92% Compression**: 3MB JSON → 240KB Parquet
- **Smart Partitioning**: `s3://bucket/YYYY/processed/crypto/month=MM/`
- **Lifecycle Policies**: Automatic tiering (S3 → Glacier) for cost optimization
- **Optimized for Analytics**: Dictionary encoding, statistics, pushdown predicates

### 🏢 **Data Warehouse (Snowflake)**
- **Optional Integration**: Seamless Snowflake data warehouse loading
- **Auto Schema Management**: Table creation and updates
- **Deduplication**: Built-in data quality checks
- **Stage Loading**: Efficient bulk loading from S3

### 📈 **Analytics & Processing**
- **Technical Analysis**: Performance metrics, volatility, volume analysis
- **Real-time Insights**: Best/worst performers, price ranges, API source tracking
- **Configurable Storage**: Local + Cloud with retention policies
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Full audit trail for monitoring and debugging

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Data Collection Layer                         │
│  Binance API → CryptoCompare API → Kraken API (Fallback)       │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Processing & Storage Layer                     │
│  • JSON Format (Human-Readable)                                 │
│  • Parquet Format (Analytics-Ready)                             │
│  • Technical Analysis (RSI, SMA, Volatility)                    │
└────────────┬──────────────────────────────┬─────────────────────┘
             │                               │
             ↓                               ↓
┌─────────────────────────┐    ┌───────────────────────────────┐
│     AWS S3 Storage      │    │    Local Storage (Optional)   │
│  • Raw Data (JSON.gz)   │    │  • 7-day retention            │
│  • Processed (Parquet)  │    │  • JSON + Parquet formats     │
│  • Year/Month Partition │    │                               │
└────────────┬────────────┘    └───────────────────────────────┘
             │
             ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Snowflake Data Warehouse (Optional)                 │
│  • Schema: FINANCIAL_DB.CORE.CRYPTO_MINUTE_DATA                 │
│  • Deduplication & Quality Checks                               │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
financial-trading-etl-pipeline/
├── 📂 automation/                      # Automated daily collection
│   ├── daily_data_collection.py       # Main pipeline orchestrator
│   ├── setup_scheduler.ps1            # Windows Task Scheduler
│   └── setup_cron.sh                  # Linux/Mac cron jobs
│
├── 📂 scripts/                         # Core data scripts
│   ├── crypto_minute_collector.py     # Multi-source data collection
│   ├── upload_minute_data.py          # S3 storage manager
│   ├── snowflake_data_loader.py       # Snowflake integration
│   └── s3_data_uploader.py            # Generic S3 uploader
│
├── 📂 utilities/                       # Tools & helpers
│   ├── setup/                         # Configuration utilities
│   │   ├── snowflake_quick_setup.py   # Interactive Snowflake setup
│   │   ├── check_s3_access.py         # S3 connection validator
│   │   └── create_s3_bucket.py        # Bucket creator
│   ├── testing/                       # Consolidated test suites
│   │   ├── full_pipeline_test.py      # End-to-end tests (recommended)
│   │   ├── test_parquet_s3.py         # Format validation
│   │   ├── test_api_connections.py    # API connectivity
│   │   └── integration_test.py        # Integration tests
│   └── analysis/                      # Data analyzers
│
├── 📂 docs/                            # All documentation
│   ├── CONFIGURATION_GUIDE.md         # Setup instructions
│   ├── DATE_COLLECTION_GUIDE.md       # Usage examples
│   ├── S3_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md        # AWS S3 guide
│   ├── SNOWFLAKE_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md # Data warehouse guide
│   ├── PROJECT_DOCUMENTATION.md       # Architecture
│   ├── SETUP.md                       # Installation steps
│   ├── USAGE_EXAMPLES.md              # Code recipes
│   └── USER_GUIDE.md                  # User manual
│
├── 📂 data/                            # Data storage (local)
├── config.py                           # Configuration loader
├── user_config.py                      # User settings
├── config.example.json                 # Template
├── README.md                           # This file (only .md in root)
└── requirements.txt                    # Dependencies
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Python 3.12+**
- **AWS Account** (for S3 storage)
- **Snowflake Account** (optional, for data warehouse)
- **API Keys**: CoinGecko, CryptoCompare (free tiers available)

### Installation

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/tchamna/financial-trading-etl-pipeline.git
cd financial-trading-etl-pipeline

# 2. Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# 3. Activate virtual environment
# Windows PowerShell:
.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
# Linux/Mac:
source venv/bin/activate

# 4. Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Configuration

```bash
# 1. Copy example configuration
cp config.example.json config.json

# 2. Edit config.json with your credentials
# Add AWS credentials, API keys, and database settings

# 3. Review user_config.py for preferences
# Customize symbols, intervals, storage options
```

### Usage

#### Option 1: Collect Data for Specific Date

```bash
# Collect data for any past date
python automation/daily_data_collection.py 2025-10-13

# Or using flag
python automation/daily_data_collection.py --date 2025-10-13

# Or with short flag
python automation/daily_data_collection.py -d 2025-10-13

# Collect data for yesterday (default)
python automation/daily_data_collection.py
```

#### Option 2: Test the Pipeline

```bash
# Run comprehensive pipeline test
python utilities/testing/full_pipeline_test.py

# Test Parquet creation and S3 upload
python utilities/testing/test_parquet_s3.py
```

#### Option 3: Standalone Collection

```bash
# Collect data without S3 upload
python scripts/crypto_minute_collector.py 2025-10-13
```

---

## 📊 What It Does

### Daily Automated Collection

✅ **Collects**: Minute-level OHLCV data for 8 major cryptocurrencies  
✅ **Processes**: Converts to both JSON (human-readable) and Parquet (analytics-optimized)  
✅ **Compresses**: Achieves 92% compression (3MB → 240KB)  
✅ **Uploads**: Stores to AWS S3 with intelligent partitioning  
✅ **Analyzes**: Calculates performance, volatility, volume metrics  
✅ **Maintains**: 7-day local retention with automatic cleanup  
✅ **Logs**: Complete audit trail for monitoring

### Data Collection Output

```
💾 COLLECTION SUMMARY:
==============================
   💰 Total minute records: 9,600
   🪙 Unique symbols: 8
   📄 Saved to: crypto_minute_data_20251013.json
   📊 BTC: 1,200 minutes
   📊 ETH: 1,200 minutes
   📊 SOL: 1,200 minutes
   ... (5 more symbols)

☁️ S3 UPLOAD:
   ✅ JSON uploaded: 218 KB (92.7% compressed)
   ✅ Parquet uploaded: 241 KB (analytics-optimized)
   📁 Bucket: financial-trading-data-lake
```

---

## 🗂️ S3 Path Structure

Data is organized in S3 with year and month partitioning for easy querying:

```
s3://financial-trading-data-lake/
├── 2025/
│   ├── raw/
│   │   └── crypto/
│   │       └── month=10/
│   │           ├── crypto_minute_data_20251010.json
│   │           ├── crypto_minute_data_20251011.json
│   │           └── crypto_minute_data_20251012.json
│   │
│   └── processed/
│       └── crypto-minute/
│           ├── json/
│           │   └── month=10/
│           │       ├── crypto_minute_data_20251010.json.gz
│           │       ├── crypto_minute_data_20251011.json.gz
│           │       └── crypto_minute_data_20251012.json.gz
│           │
│           └── parquet/
│               └── month=10/
│                   ├── crypto_minute_data_20251010.parquet
│                   ├── crypto_minute_data_20251011.parquet
│                   └── crypto_minute_data_20251012.parquet
```

**Benefits:**
- All files for the same month are grouped together
- Easy to query specific date ranges
- Optimized for analytics tools (Athena, Spark, Snowflake)
- Filename contains full date for identification  

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### User Settings (`user_config.py`)

```python
# Crypto symbols to collect
CRYPTO_SYMBOLS = ['BTC', 'ETH', 'SOL', 'ADA', 'DOT', 'LINK', 'UNI', 'AVAX']

# Data collection interval
DATA_COLLECTION_INTERVAL_MINUTES = 5

# Storage configuration
ENABLE_LOCAL_STORAGE = True       # Save files locally
ENABLE_S3_STORAGE = True          # Upload to AWS S3
SAVE_JSON_FORMAT = True           # Save as JSON
SAVE_PARQUET_FORMAT = True        # Save as Parquet
KEEP_LOCAL_DAYS = 7               # Local retention period

# S3 settings
S3_BUCKET_NAME = "financial-trading-data-lake"
S3_REGION = "us-east-1"

# Snowflake (optional)
ENABLE_SNOWFLAKE = False          # Enable Snowflake loading
```

### Credentials (`config.json`)

```json
{
  "api": {
    "alpha_vantage_api_key": "YOUR_ALPHA_VANTAGE_KEY",
    "coingecko_base_url": "https://api.coingecko.com/api/v3"
  },
  "s3": {
    "enabled": true,
    "access_key_id": "YOUR_AWS_ACCESS_KEY",
    "secret_access_key": "YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY",
    "region": "us-east-1"
  },
  "snowflake": {
    "account": "YOUR_ACCOUNT.snowflakecomputing.com",
    "username": "YOUR_USERNAME",
    "password": "YOUR_PASSWORD",
    "warehouse": "FINANCIAL_WH",
    "database": "FINANCIAL_DB",
    "schema": "CORE"
  }
}
```

---

## � Documentation

### Essential Guides

- **[Configuration Guide](docs/CONFIGURATION_GUIDE.md)** - Complete setup instructions
- **[Date Collection Guide](docs/DATE_COLLECTION_GUIDE.md)** - Usage examples and date formats
- **[S3 Integration Guide](docs/S3_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** - AWS S3 setup and best practices
- **[Snowflake Integration Guide](docs/SNOWFLAKE_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** - Data warehouse setup

### Additional Resources

- **[Project Documentation](docs/PROJECT_DOCUMENTATION.md)** - Architecture and design
- **[Setup Guide](docs/SETUP.md)** - Installation and configuration steps
- **[Usage Examples](docs/USAGE_EXAMPLES.md)** - Common use cases and recipes
- **[User Guide](docs/USER_GUIDE.md)** - Comprehensive user manual

---

## 🧪 Testing

### Run All Tests

```bash
# Comprehensive end-to-end test
python utilities/testing/full_pipeline_test.py
```

**Test Coverage:**
- ✅ Configuration validation
- ✅ Data collection (9,600 records)
- ✅ File creation (JSON + Parquet)
- ✅ S3 upload verification
- ✅ Snowflake integration (optional)
- ✅ Pipeline flow validation

**Expected Output:**
```
======================================================================
  TEST SUMMARY
======================================================================

📋 Results:
   ✅ PASS   - Configuration
   ✅ PASS   - Data Collection
   ✅ PASS   - Data Files
   ✅ PASS   - S3 Upload
   ✅ PASS   - Snowflake
   ✅ PASS   - Pipeline Flow

📊 Score: 6/6 tests passed

🎉 ALL TESTS PASSED! Your pipeline is fully functional!
```

---

## 📈 Performance Metrics

### Data Efficiency

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **Records/Day** | 9,600 (1,200 min × 8 symbols) |
| **JSON Size** | ~3.0 MB |
| **Parquet Size** | ~240 KB |
| **Compression** | 92% reduction |
| **Collection Time** | ~2-3 minutes |
| **Upload Time** | ~5-10 seconds |

### Storage Costs (Example)

| Storage | Monthly Cost (10 days) |
|---------|----------------------|
| **S3 Standard** | ~$0.01 (2.4 MB × 10 days) |
| **S3 Glacier** | ~$0.004 (after 30 days) |
| **Snowflake** | Pay-per-query |

---

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Backfilling Historical Data

```bash
# Collect data for multiple days
python automation/daily_data_collection.py 2025-10-01
python automation/daily_data_collection.py 2025-10-02
python automation/daily_data_collection.py 2025-10-03

# Or use a PowerShell loop
$dates = @('2025-10-01', '2025-10-02', '2025-10-03', '2025-10-04')
foreach ($date in $dates) {
    python automation/daily_data_collection.py $date
}
```

### Querying Parquet with Python

```python
import pandas as pd

# Read from local file
df = pd.read_parquet('data/crypto_minute_data_20251013.parquet')

# Filter specific symbol
btc_data = df[df['symbol'] == 'BITCOIN']

# Calculate hourly averages
hourly_avg = df.groupby(df['timestamp'].dt.hour)['close'].mean()
```

### Snowflake Queries

```sql
-- Query crypto data in Snowflake
SELECT 
    symbol,
    DATE_TRUNC('hour', timestamp) as hour,
    AVG(close) as avg_price,
    MAX(high) as max_price,
    MIN(low) as min_price,
    SUM(volume) as total_volume
FROM FINANCIAL_DB.CORE.CRYPTO_MINUTE_DATA
WHERE DATE(timestamp) = '2025-10-13'
GROUP BY symbol, hour
ORDER BY symbol, hour;
```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

### Development Setup

```bash
# Install development dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests before committing
python utilities/testing/full_pipeline_test.py
```

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 👤 Author

**Shck Tchamna**
- Email: tchamna@gmail.com
- GitHub: [@tchamna](https://github.com/tchamna)

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Alpha Vantage** - Financial data API
- **CoinGecko** - Cryptocurrency data
- **CryptoCompare** - Market data provider
- **AWS S3** - Cloud storage
- **Snowflake** - Data warehouse platform

---

## � Support

For issues, questions, or suggestions:
1. Check the [Documentation](#-documentation)
2. Review [Configuration Guide](docs/CONFIGURATION_GUIDE.md)
3. Open an issue on GitHub
4. Contact: tchamna@gmail.com

---

<div align="center">

**⭐ Star this repo if you find it helpful!**

Made with ❤️ by Shck Tchamna

</div>

Commit message:

Fix: Always use direct insert fallback for Parquet loads to Snowflake. Ensures reliable data loading when S3 staging/cert issues occur on local dev environments.

README.md, after:

# 📊 Financial Trading ETL Pipeline

> A production-ready, cloud-native ETL pipeline for automated cryptocurrency data collection, processing, and storage with AWS S3 integration and Snowflake data warehouse support.

[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![AWS S3](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-S3-orange.svg)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
[![Snowflake](https://img.shields.io/badge/Snowflake-Ready-blue.svg)](https://www.snowflake.com/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

---

## ✨ Features

### 🔄 **Data Collection**
- **Minute-Level Precision**: Collects cryptocurrency market data at 1-minute intervals
- **Multi-Source Resilience**: Automatic fallback between Binance → CryptoCompare → Kraken
- **8 Major Cryptocurrencies**: BTC, ETH, SOL, ADA, DOT, LINK, UNI, AVAX
- **9,600+ Records/Day**: 1,200 minutes × 8 symbols = comprehensive intraday coverage
- **Historical Data**: Collect data for any past date with strict `YYYY-MM-DD` validation

### ☁️ **Cloud Storage (AWS S3)**
- **Dual Format Storage**: JSON (compressed) + Parquet (analytics-optimized)
- **92% Compression**: 3MB JSON → 240KB Parquet
- **Smart Partitioning**: `s3://bucket/YYYY/processed/crypto/month=MM/`
- **Lifecycle Policies**: Automatic tiering (S3 → Glacier) for cost optimization
- **Optimized for Analytics**: Dictionary encoding, statistics, pushdown predicates

### 🏢 **Data Warehouse (Snowflake)**
- **Optional Integration**: Seamless Snowflake data warehouse loading
- **Auto Schema Management**: Table creation and updates
- **Deduplication**: Built-in data quality checks
- **Stage Loading**: Efficient bulk loading from S3

### 📈 **Analytics & Processing**
- **Technical Analysis**: Performance metrics, volatility, volume analysis
- **Real-time Insights**: Best/worst performers, price ranges, API source tracking
- **Configurable Storage**: Local + Cloud with retention policies
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Full audit trail for monitoring and debugging

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Data Collection Layer                         │
│  Binance API → CryptoCompare API → Kraken API (Fallback)       │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Processing & Storage Layer                     │
│  • JSON Format (Human-Readable)                                 │
│  • Parquet Format (Analytics-Ready)                             │
│  • Technical Analysis (RSI, SMA, Volatility)                    │
└────────────┬──────────────────────────────┬─────────────────────┘
             │                               │
             ↓                               ↓
┌─────────────────────────┐    ┌───────────────────────────────┐
│     AWS S3 Storage      │    │    Local Storage (Optional)   │
│  • Raw Data (JSON.gz)   │    │  • 7-day retention            │
│  • Processed (Parquet)  │    │  • JSON + Parquet formats     │
│  • Year/Month Partition │    │                               │
└────────────┬────────────┘    └───────────────────────────────┘
             │
             ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Snowflake Data Warehouse (Optional)                 │
│  • Schema: FINANCIAL_DB.CORE.CRYPTO_MINUTE_DATA                 │
│  • Deduplication & Quality Checks                               │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
financial-trading-etl-pipeline/
├── 📂 automation/                      # Automated daily collection
│   ├── daily_data_collection.py       # Main pipeline orchestrator
│   ├── setup_scheduler.ps1            # Windows Task Scheduler
│   └── setup_cron.sh                  # Linux/Mac cron jobs
│
├── 📂 scripts/                         # Core data scripts
│   ├── crypto_minute_collector.py     # Multi-source data collection
│   ├── upload_minute_data.py          # S3 storage manager
│   ├── snowflake_data_loader.py       # Snowflake integration
│   └── s3_data_uploader.py            # Generic S3 uploader
│
├── 📂 utilities/                       # Tools & helpers
│   ├── setup/                         # Configuration utilities
│   │   ├── snowflake_quick_setup.py   # Interactive Snowflake setup
│   │   ├── check_s3_access.py         # S3 connection validator
│   │   └── create_s3_bucket.py        # Bucket creator
│   ├── testing/                       # Consolidated test suites
│   │   ├── full_pipeline_test.py      # End-to-end tests (recommended)
│   │   ├── test_parquet_s3.py         # Format validation
│   │   ├── test_api_connections.py    # API connectivity
│   │   └── integration_test.py        # Integration tests
│   └── analysis/                      # Data analyzers
│
├── 📂 docs/                            # All documentation
│   ├── CONFIGURATION_GUIDE.md         # Setup instructions
│   ├── DATE_COLLECTION_GUIDE.md       # Usage examples
│   ├── S3_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md        # AWS S3 guide
│   ├── SNOWFLAKE_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md # Data warehouse guide
│   ├── PROJECT_DOCUMENTATION.md       # Architecture
│   ├── SETUP.md                       # Installation steps
│   ├── USAGE_EXAMPLES.md              # Code recipes
│   └── USER_GUIDE.md                  # User manual
│
├── 📂 data/                            # Data storage (local)
├── config.py                           # Configuration loader
├── user_config.py                      # User settings
├── config.example.json                 # Template
├── README.md                           # This file (only .md in root)
└── requirements.txt                    # Dependencies
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Python 3.12+**
- **AWS Account** (for S3 storage)
- **Snowflake Account** (optional, for data warehouse)
- **API Keys**: CoinGecko, CryptoCompare (free tiers available)

### Installation

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/tchamna/financial-trading-etl-pipeline.git
cd financial-trading-etl-pipeline

# 2. Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# 3. Activate virtual environment
# Windows PowerShell:
.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
# Linux/Mac:
source venv/bin/activate

# 4. Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Configuration

```bash
# 1. Copy example configuration
cp config.example.json config.json

# 2. Edit config.json with your credentials
# Add AWS credentials, API keys, and database settings

# 3. Review user_config.py for preferences
# Customize symbols, intervals, storage options
```

### Usage

#### Run the End-to-End Pipeline

The most reliable way to run the entire pipeline is to use the manual execution script. This script simulates the daily automated run, performing all steps from data collection to storage and analysis.

```bash
# Run the full end-to-end pipeline for yesterday's data
python automation/run_manual.py
```

This command will:
1.  Collect the latest stock and crypto data.
2.  Save the data locally to the `data/` directory in both JSON and Parquet formats.
3.  Upload the data to your configured S3 bucket.
4.  Attempt to load the data into Snowflake (if enabled).
5.  Run a final technical analysis.

#### Collect Data for a Specific Date

You can also run the collection for any specific past date.

```bash
# Collect data for a specific date (YYYY-MM-DD)
python automation/daily_data_collection.py 2025-10-13

# Or using the --date flag
python automation/daily_data_collection.py --date 2025-10-13
```

#### Test the Pipeline

To verify all components without running a full data collection, use the comprehensive test suite.

```bash
# Run the full pipeline test suite
python utilities/testing/full_pipeline_test.py
```

---

## 📊 What It Does

### Daily Automated Collection

✅ **Collects**: Minute-level OHLCV data for 8 major cryptocurrencies  
✅ **Processes**: Converts to both JSON (human-readable) and Parquet (analytics-optimized)  
✅ **Compresses**: Achieves 92% compression (3MB → 240KB)  
✅ **Uploads**: Stores to AWS S3 with intelligent partitioning  
✅ **Analyzes**: Calculates performance, volatility, volume metrics  
✅ **Maintains**: 7-day local retention with automatic cleanup  
✅ **Logs**: Complete audit trail for monitoring

### Data Collection Output

```
💾 COLLECTION SUMMARY:
==============================
   💰 Total minute records: 9,600
   🪙 Unique symbols: 8
   📄 Saved to: crypto_minute_data_20251013.json
   📊 BTC: 1,200 minutes
   📊 ETH: 1,200 minutes
   📊 SOL: 1,200 minutes
   ... (5 more symbols)

☁️ S3 UPLOAD:
   ✅ JSON uploaded: 218 KB (92.7% compressed)
   ✅ Parquet uploaded: 241 KB (analytics-optimized)
   📁 Bucket: financial-trading-data-lake
```

---

## 🗂️ S3 Path Structure

Data is organized in S3 with year and month partitioning for easy querying:

```
s3://financial-trading-data-lake/
├── 2025/
│   ├── raw/
│   │   └── crypto/
│   │       └── month=10/
│   │           ├── crypto_minute_data_20251010.json
│   │           ├── crypto_minute_data_20251011.json
│   │           └── crypto_minute_data_20251012.json
│   │
│   └── processed/
│       └── crypto-minute/
│           ├── json/
│           │   └── month=10/
│           │       ├── crypto_minute_data_20251010.json.gz
│           │       ├── crypto_minute_data_20251011.json.gz
│           │       └── crypto_minute_data_20251012.json.gz
│           │
│           └── parquet/
│               └── month=10/
│                   ├── crypto_minute_data_20251010.parquet
│                   ├── crypto_minute_data_20251011.parquet
│                   └── crypto_minute_data_20251012.parquet
```

**Benefits:**
- All files for the same month are grouped together
- Easy to query specific date ranges
- Optimized for analytics tools (Athena, Spark, Snowflake)
- Filename contains full date for identification  

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### User Settings (`user_config.py`)

```python
# Crypto symbols to collect
CRYPTO_SYMBOLS = ['BTC', 'ETH', 'SOL', 'ADA', 'DOT', 'LINK', 'UNI', 'AVAX']

# Data collection interval
DATA_COLLECTION_INTERVAL_MINUTES = 5

# Storage configuration
ENABLE_LOCAL_STORAGE = True       # Save files locally
ENABLE_S3_STORAGE = True          # Upload to AWS S3
SAVE_JSON_FORMAT = True           # Save as JSON
SAVE_PARQUET_FORMAT = True        # Save as Parquet
KEEP_LOCAL_DAYS = 7               # Local retention period

# S3 settings
S3_BUCKET_NAME = "financial-trading-data-lake"
S3_REGION = "us-east-1"

# Snowflake (optional)
ENABLE_SNOWFLAKE = False          # Enable Snowflake loading
```

### Credentials (`config.json`)

```json
{
  "api": {
    "alpha_vantage_api_key": "YOUR_ALPHA_VANTAGE_KEY",
    "coingecko_base_url": "https://api.coingecko.com/api/v3"
  },
  "s3": {
    "enabled": true,
    "access_key_id": "YOUR_AWS_ACCESS_KEY",
    "secret_access_key": "YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY",
    "region": "us-east-1"
  },
  "snowflake": {
    "account": "YOUR_ACCOUNT.snowflakecomputing.com",
    "username": "YOUR_USERNAME",
    "password": "YOUR_PASSWORD",
    "warehouse": "FINANCIAL_WH",
    "database": "FINANCIAL_DB",
    "schema": "CORE"
  }
}
```

---

## � Documentation

### Essential Guides

- **[Configuration Guide](docs/CONFIGURATION_GUIDE.md)** - Complete setup instructions
- **[Date Collection Guide](docs/DATE_COLLECTION_GUIDE.md)** - Usage examples and date formats
- **[S3 Integration Guide](docs/S3_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** - AWS S3 setup and best practices
- **[Snowflake Integration Guide](docs/SNOWFLAKE_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** - Data warehouse setup

### Additional Resources

- **[Project Documentation](docs/PROJECT_DOCUMENTATION.md)** - Architecture and design
- **[Setup Guide](docs/SETUP.md)** - Installation and configuration steps
- **[Usage Examples](docs/USAGE_EXAMPLES.md)** - Common use cases and recipes
- **[User Guide](docs/USER_GUIDE.md)** - Comprehensive user manual

---

## 🧪 Testing

### Run All Tests

```bash
# Comprehensive end-to-end test
python utilities/testing/full_pipeline_test.py
```

**Test Coverage:**
- ✅ Configuration validation
- ✅ Data collection (9,600 records)
- ✅ File creation (JSON + Parquet)
- ✅ S3 upload verification
- ✅ Snowflake integration (optional)
- ✅ Pipeline flow validation

**Expected Output:**
```
======================================================================
  TEST SUMMARY
======================================================================

📋 Results:
   ✅ PASS   - Configuration
   ✅ PASS   - Data Collection
   ✅ PASS   - Data Files
   ✅ PASS   - S3 Upload
   ✅ PASS   - Snowflake
   ✅ PASS   - Pipeline Flow

📊 Score: 6/6 tests passed

🎉 ALL TESTS PASSED! Your pipeline is fully functional!
```

---

## 📈 Performance Metrics

### Data Efficiency

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **Records/Day** | 9,600 (1,200 min × 8 symbols) |
| **JSON Size** | ~3.0 MB |
| **Parquet Size** | ~240 KB |
| **Compression** | 92% reduction |
| **Collection Time** | ~2-3 minutes |
| **Upload Time** | ~5-10 seconds |

### Storage Costs (Example)

| Storage | Monthly Cost (10 days) |
|---------|----------------------|
| **S3 Standard** | ~$0.01 (2.4 MB × 10 days) |
| **S3 Glacier** | ~$0.004 (after 30 days) |
| **Snowflake** | Pay-per-query |

---

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Backfilling Historical Data

```bash
# Collect data for multiple days
python automation/daily_data_collection.py 2025-10-01
python automation/daily_data_collection.py 2025-10-02
python automation/daily_data_collection.py 2025-10-03

# Or use a PowerShell loop
$dates = @('2025-10-01', '2025-10-02', '2025-10-03', '2025-10-04')
foreach ($date in $dates) {
    python automation/daily_data_collection.py $date
}
```

### Querying Parquet with Python

```python
import pandas as pd

# Read from local file
df = pd.read_parquet('data/crypto_minute_data_20251013.parquet')

# Filter specific symbol
btc_data = df[df['symbol'] == 'BITCOIN']

# Calculate hourly averages
hourly_avg = df.groupby(df['timestamp'].dt.hour)['close'].mean()
```

### Snowflake Queries

```sql
-- Query crypto data in Snowflake
SELECT 
    symbol,
    DATE_TRUNC('hour', timestamp) as hour,
    AVG(close) as avg_price,
    MAX(high) as max_price,
    MIN(low) as min_price,
    SUM(volume) as total_volume
FROM FINANCIAL_DB.CORE.CRYPTO_MINUTE_DATA
WHERE DATE(timestamp) = '2025-10-13'
GROUP BY symbol, hour
ORDER BY symbol, hour;
```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

### Development Setup

```bash
# Install development dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests before committing
python utilities/testing/full_pipeline_test.py
```

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 👤 Author

**Shck Tchamna**
- Email: tchamna@gmail.com
- GitHub: [@tchamna](https://github.com/tchamna)

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Alpha Vantage** - Financial data API
- **CoinGecko** - Cryptocurrency data
- **CryptoCompare** - Market data provider
- **AWS S3** - Cloud storage
- **Snowflake** - Data warehouse platform

---

## � Support

For issues, questions, or suggestions:
1. Check the [Documentation](#-documentation)
2. Review [Configuration Guide](docs/CONFIGURATION_GUIDE.md)
3. Open an issue on GitHub
4. Contact: tchamna@gmail.com

---

<div align="center">

**⭐ Star this repo if you find it helpful!**

Made with ❤️ by Shck Tchamna

</div>
